now Japan is suspending funding for the
UN Agency for Palestinian refugees it
joins a growing list of donors including
the US Germany and Britain that have
stopped payments since Israel accused
some staff of being involved in the
Hamas October 7th attacks the UN is
urging governments to keep funding the
agency with Gaza on the brink of
famine unr's Aid handouts are one of
gaza's last
lifelines for many here these blue and
white bags of flour are all that stand
between them and
starvation but with more and more of the
agency's donors cutting off their
funding people here in the southern city
of Rafa fear the
worst stopping unr's Aid distribution is
a catastrophe in the Gaza
Street the handouts are our main support
and if they stop there will be a famine
like the one in the north of
Gaza if unra stops helping us then our
people will face death minute by minute
unra is helping our people who are
hungry and suffering if they stop we'll
have no one on our side other than
God details of the Israeli allegations
against unra staff have been slow to
emerge according to the New York Times
citing a dossier provided to the US
government by the Israeli secret
services 12 workers were involved some
are said to have participated in
kidnappings and killings While others
provided logistical support the agency
has already fired several people and has
vowed to thoroughly investigate the
claims but the UN says that funding
needs to continue while that
happens Palestinian officials in the
occupied West Bank have also urged
doners to
reconsider the countries that have
announced this suspension their aid
amounts to 70% of the annual budget of
the United Nation relief and work agency
this measure is extremely dangerous and
it is our hope that it will be
reversed with most Garin now forced from
their homes by the fighting people here
are more dependent on the agencies help
than
ever the head of unra has warned that if
money doesn't start flowing again soon
its work will grind to a halt in a
matter of
weeks so let's get another perspective
now we are joined by Kenneth Roth he
served as the Executive Director of
Human Rights Watch for nearly three
decades and he joins us from Geneva uh
welcome back to the program the
allegations and the agency's response to
them are of course still being obsessed
but it already has a big scandal with a
potential for real life implications for
civilians in Gaza what do you make of of
the way that this has gone down so
far well clearly the allegations against
a dozen unra employees are serious you
know if they actually participated in
the October 7th Kamas attacks they will
have been responsible potentially you
know for murder for abduction these are
war crimes so there's no question that
this is serious the but the thing that's
perverse is that Western governments are
responding by essentially penalizing
2.3 million Palestinians in Gaza because
they're not responsible for what these
dozen employees did but by suspending
funds to unra they the Western
governments are essentially saying you
know we don't care if you're facing
large scale starvation we are going to
cut off the one agency that has been
capable of feeding you okay I'd like to
pick apart on many things that you said
there um the humanitarian situation but
but first I'd like to ask you about the
investigation because Israel says that
the organization has failed or rather
has fallen under the influence of Hamas
in Gaza the UN probe now into these
allegations should it concentrate on the
individuals in question or does the
organization need to take a broader
approach for example looking at all of
the
employees um you know more than 10,000
there and and perhaps the recruitment
process well unre I mean Israel is
Distributing a dossier these days where
it's making these broad allegations but
Israel has been trying to shut down unra
for decades because it sees unra as the
agency that keeps Palestinian refugee
identity alive you know it doesn't want
people thinking about themselves as
refugees they wants them to just kind of
go someplace else and never think about
returning to their original homes within
Israel so you have to take with a huge
grain of salt anything that Israel says
but if you look at you know how did UNR
leadership respond they immediately
started an investigation they vowed to
criminally prosecute anybody who was
responsible for um the Kamas attack on
October 7th and that's you know a whole
lot more than Israel has done you don't
see Israel vowing to prosecute its war
criminals say the people who are you
know blocking the humanitarian Aid to
the needy population a clear War crime
or the people who are dropping 2,000 PB
bombs in heavily populated civilian
neighborhoods Another War CRI so you
know there's something just perverse
about Western governments
suspending Aid to unra immediately upon
these allegations for a dozen but but
you know the the military aid 3.8
billion in military aid the massive arms
scales to Israel that continues right
and I mean those are questions that that
we will ask for of of the Israelis and
their allies um but I just want to you
know drill down and focus on the
situation with unra in particular right
now in our conversation um you've
highlighted there that many important
donor countries have now suspended new
funding to the agency um which is
dealing with this grave humanitarian uh
situation in Gaza we heard in the
previous program for for for example
from um our correspondent in Germany uh
giving the German argument that you know
now there's a sort of due process that
that will take place this is uh just
waiting to see what the results of the
investigation is and that there are
other vessels and means by which to get
Aid to those who are in Gaza and perhaps
those are going to be stepped up so I'd
like to ask you through that lens what
do you make of the reaction by donor
States because we've seen so many of
them now jump on board and temporarily
suspend while while the investigation is
underway I mean the donor governments
seem to be mainly concerned about
attacks from the right by pro-israel
partisans because otherwise there's no
way to explain why they suspend Aid to
unrenowned
they've launched an investigation we can
wait to see what the results of that
investigation are but unra has very few
reserves that's because you know Trump
had cut off Aid and so they spent down
their reserves and to say oh there are
other ways to get food and and medicine
and the like to the people of of Gaza I
mean that's just not true you know unra
is the principal agency that is
Distributing this Aid it has the trucks
that to some extent are able to move
around the bombardment and the life so
you don't think that increasing
donations to the Red Cross or something
that that's going to make any sort of
Dent or
impact I mean the Red Cross has no
capacity to distribute the quantity of
Aid that's required and here we have 80%
of the population of Gaza having been
displaced they're living in tents and
the like um the the distribution has to
take place amidst a war and while the
Red Cross is a very important agency it
just doesn't begin to have the capacity
to service this enormous population in
need former Human Rights Watch executive
director Kenneth Roth uh thank you so
much for joining us here on DW news to
share that perspective we appreciate it
thank
you let's bring in DW political
correspondent Thomas Sparrow uh Thomas
Germany is among the countries which
have halted funding to unra what more
can you tell us about the reasons that
were
given Germany did stress that the UN
agency played a very important role a
vital role when it comes to supplying
basic services to the affected
population but at the same time it
stressed that it was important to have a
quick clarification of what's happening
right now and basically stress that
until that investigation is complete the
German government will be haling
approval for new funds and it's
important Sarah to stress that we're
talking here about new funds so it's not
about what's already been pledged in
fact the German government stressed that
there are no new pledges pending but
that it's all about future funds until
that investigation is complete what that
essentially means is that according to
the German government humanitarian Aid
is continuing to those affected and
given the horrendous humanitarian
situation in Gaza for civilians did you
hear any suggestions about alternate
ways to help people
there no matter which way the
investigation goes sorry Thomas go ahead
no no problem the German government did
stress that it rejected that criticism
that has been leveled against those who
are haling these funds stressing that
it's basically a collective punishment
against Palestinians that German
government stressed that there were
other ways to reach Palestinians other
ways to reach those affected in fact
stressing that Germany had increased its
funds to other organizations like the
international Committee of the Red Cross
or UNICEF and again stressing that
humanitarian Aid through this UN agency
was still continuing so it's a big
actually debate as to what is happening
now when that investigation will end how
it will end but the German government
was quick to to stress both through a
press statement and also today in its
regular government spokes people
conference that Germany was basically
still helping those affected in the
region and it was doing so through the
UN agency but also through other
agencies as well okay very interesting
uh Thomas Sparrow joining us with the
view from Berlin we very much appreciate
it